- [Instructor] So the Use case that we have is,
we are going to identify different kinds of people
who come for that conference meet.
So I have a software developer, I have a professor,
I could have some other kind of a person.
All of them belong to the same inheritance hierarchy.
So when you serialize a collection of such objects,
how do you even deserialize it?
Because there's no way to figure out
which object you're trying to create
back from the JSON document, right?
So now let's go ahead and implement the custom serializer.
So, for that we need to write a class
which implements the JSON-B serializer interface.
Let's head back to the IDE and under the Custom folder,
I will create a class which will, let's say,
be called PersonSerializer.
And what is this going to do?
This is going to implement the JsonbSerializer interface.
And who are we doing this job for?
For the Person class.
So that will be the generics value that we apply.
So the moment we do this we'll have
to implement the abstract methods.
Right?
Okay.
Let's do this.
There's just one method.
Serialize.
Now what is this demanding?
The Person object?
JsonGenerator.
So this is the low-level Json API that we have,
which comes from the JsonProcessing bundle of APIs.
So, this JsonGenerator will help you to write JSON data
to an output source in a streaming fashion.
It belongs to the javax.jason.stream package.
And if you look at your Json class,
it has got methods in order
to create these Generator references for you.
So that is the JsonGenerator.
And then additionally, we have got something
which is called as SerializationContext.
So if you look at this, it is a helper,
it is a kind of utility,
which will help you to serialize a given object.
So there are all ordered versions of that method,
the first one which will take a String and then the object.
And then use the JsonGenerator
to write it to the output source.
The other one just takes the object and the JsonGenerator.
So, first one is primarily to make out
if you really want to specify a key
for that particular object that you're trying to serialize.
Okay. So what are we going to do here?
Let's get rid of the default implementation first.
Let's come down.
Line number 22.
I don't like these names which are given to parameters.
You cannot make out anything from them.
So let's change them.
Person.
Let's stick to a good coding convention.
JsonGenerator.
That's always good rather than jg.
Right?
Okay and let's call this, at least, context.
Okay.
Now it looks better.
Now let's go ahead.
The first thing that we have to do is go ahead
and take that jsonGenerator reference
and say start writing the object.
writeStartObject().
That's the method that you want to call.
This one.
Now, the next thing is
we are going to take the serialization context object,
so let's say context, and we are going to say serialize,
and we want to get the second version, the overloaded
version, which demands a string.
Now the string will be
I'm going to get the name of the class.
What better key do you have
than taking the name of the class itself?
So let's say person, dot, and you say getClass,
and on that you chain getName.
And take this current
person object that you already have as a parameter and then
of course the jsonGenerator.
So once you've completed this
serialization, you'll just going to have to call the
jsonGenerator and say writeEnd.
Okay.
So, in a gist, what have we done?
Whenever any of the Professor or the
SoftwareDeveloper objects comes in for serialization,
it's going to meet this method first.
Because that's how we're going to serialize it.
When it starts writing out the serialization for,
let's say, a software developer,
then the SoftwareDeveloper object is going to come and
sit in this parameter.
So when we say getClass, getName,
we're going to get the name of the SoftwareDeveloper class.
That totally works for us because that's how we will
identify that the object that got serialized right now
is of this software developer.
Pass the object itself.
Because that's what you want to serialize.
And jsonGenerator
because you need to write out this object in a streaming
fashion for which you will use this API.
Once this is done, you just have to end the writing.
Alright, so this is the Serializer.
So now let's go and test the serialization behavior.
You just have to go the the
TestSerializers class and there's another thing that we
have to do.
We have to pass an instance of the Serializer
to the object mapper.
I'm right there on the mappers folder
right now.
I'm about to open ObjectMapper.
Go down there,
comment out the Adapter, we don't want the Adapter now,
and instead we say "//property for Serializer".
And what are we going to do? We are going to set that
Serializer as a part of this API call so I can actually
see conflict with Serializers and instantiate your
PersonSerializer.
That's all.
Okay, once you do this,
let's come back to the Test class, and now, what are we
going to do?
We are going to make sure that on line 27,
where we were trying to get that empty jsonb instance,
we get the conflict object to clear that instance.
Right?
So the same thing that we have been doing all over.
ObjectMapper.getObjectMapper().
And the moment you do this,
there's one more thing that we have to do.
When we say jsonb.toJson,
this time we are not only going to pass the
data, but we are also going to give the type.
What kind of type it is when you're trying to serialize.
So that will be on line 27. I'm just going to take it from
the java.lang.reflect package.
Take that type and then
say the one that we've already written out on line 34.
We just start to take this type.
And just mention that type out here.
That's all.
I did three things.
One is I took the conflict object.
Second, in addition to the data, I pass the type to.
And how do we mention the type for a generics list?
That's how we do it.
So this call toJson is now going to call
our custom Serializer because that is what we are using
in the jsonb object.
And now let's see how the result
comes out to be.
I am going to comment the lines 34 and 35
because they are going to give me that exception that we
have already seen before.
So let's just run this part
of the call and check it out.
Oh yeah, do you see what happened?
It tells me that the
result is com.app.beans.Professor, and then the data for the
professor, and the second element in that jSon array is
com.app.beans.SoftwareDeveloper and the information
pertaining to that guy.
Right?
So this is how that serialization is going to happen now.
Previously, we only got this information:
the one that I'm highlighting.
I never got the label.
I never got this.
But that's what we did using the Serializer.
In the next video, we'll see how to Deserialize
and write logic for it, and then see the output.